# Signature-Work-Portfolio
For my signature work portfolio I will be discussing three projects/assignments I've worked on during my time at St. Thomas.
- Animal Adoption App (https://github.com/pkjthao/Animal-Adoption-App)
- St. Paul Crime Website (https://github.com/pkjthao/webdev-rest)
- Fragment Shaders (https://github.com/pkjthao/cg-fragmentshaders)

The animal adoption app was a final homework project for CISC 450 or Database Design. The idea was to design a relational database and implement it in a ORM. My group and I decided to create a database that an animal shelter would use to manage all their data and turn it into a functional web application. When designing this database we had to keep in mind what values we would want to store and what kind of relationship each table would have to each other. For example since this was an animal shelter we would have an animals table with the attributes like animalID, name, species, breed, and many more. Then we had more tables like medical records with the relation being many medical records belong to one animal, adoption requests with one animal having multiple adoption requests, and shelter locations with one shelter having many animals. Figuring out these relations between tables along with establishing foreign keys allowed us to efficiently design a database that could easily be converted into DDL. Actually designing and implementing a database really allowed me to experience the process of creating databases along with the mistakes that came along with it. I learned that when initially designing the database it should be as complete as it can be as changing the schema later on during the implementation phase was difficult and time consuming. Overall I enjoyed this project as it allowed me to put all the things I learned in class into practice.

The St. Paul Crime website was another final project for CISC 375 Web Development. This project consisted of two parts, creating the RESTful server and implementing it into a single page application. For this project I got to learn what a RESTful API was and how to use it for web development. I got to learn how to set up local servers to run the code as well as creating API routes to fetch data from the database which was installed locally. Later in part two I got to learn about client side frameworks. For this project specifically we used Vue.js which allowed use to create a more complex and dynamic web page compared to using pure html and css. I also got to learn about the use of components to break down parts of the code into different files in order to have dynamic elements on the page. This concept is also used in many other frameworks as it allows for easier code management and visibility. I really enjoyed doing this assignment and the class which allowed me to foster an interest in the web development field.

The last project is called Fragment Shaders from CISC 420 Computer Graphics. This project required us to personally code shaders that created effects on a video. I got to learn a lot about the mathematical components behind the different filters. For example to get a black and white effect by changing the luminance with this formula  L = 0.299 * Red + 0.587 * Green + 0.114 * Blue and assigning the luminance value to all 3 color components. Or the fish eye effect that involved a lot of scaling and trigonometry calculations. Before this I never put too much thought into how computer graphics works nor did I realize how much math was involved in drawing a simple line. I thought this project was pretty fun since I got to create these common filters myself and learn about the math that made up each effect.
